Deadly predators
aren't something
we expect in our own backyard.
But here at Keith Jackson's
farm in the Scottish highlands,
they're an age old problem.
Highland cattle were once
preyed on by everything from
brown bears to packs of wolves.
And though those predators are
long gone from the Highlands,
the cow's instinct to
escape them has remained.
The natural predators in the
past, in the last 1,000 years
or so, would have been the
likes of wolf and lynx,
and now, because
the breed hasn't
been interfered with too much,
now instinct's very strong.
Mom's urge is still to
protect her newborn calf.
So once she cleans
it and feeds it,
she hides it in the
tall highland grass,
leaving her free to graze
and regain her strength.
It's an incredibly
instinctive technique,
which is bad news for Keith and
his daughter, Jess, who have
to keep tabs on new arrivals.
All right.
You start counting them
from up there, Jess.
How many you got?
- 13.
13.
I was at 16.
Like Houdinis, you
don't know where
they're going to appear from
or where they're being stashed.
Ah, look, there they are.
They're all tucked in, hiding.
Little [inaudible].
They all seem quite happy.
If you hid your baby
and went out to dinner,
you'd get a visit
from a social worker.
But for animal moms, it's an
effective method of protection.
And on the other side
of the world in Africa,
even cheetah moms hide their
babies to keep them safe.